Updates PowerShell Life cycle doc (#5565)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs: reference/docs-conceptual/PowerShell-Support-Lifecycle.md

---
title: PowerShell Core Support Lifecycle
description: Policies governing support for PowerShell Core
ms.date: 03/09/2020
---
# PowerShell Support Lifecycle

PowerShell is a distinct set of tools and components that is shipped, installed, and configured

> separately from Windows PowerShell. So, PowerShell isn't included in the Windows 7/8.1/10 or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
separately from Windows PowerShell. PowerShell isn't included in the Windows
```

> Windows Server licensing agreements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
licensing agreements.
```

> However, PowerShell is supported under traditional Microsoft support agreements, including [Premier][],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PowerShell is supported under traditional Microsoft support agreements, including [Premier][],
```

have a problem that requires immediate attention, you should use the traditional, paid support
options.

## LifeCycle of PowerShell 7

> With the release of PowerShell 7, support has moved from the Microsoft Modern Lifecycle Policy to follow [.NET Core's support lifecycle][Long-Term].

Reviewer 2: So we actually are still on the Modern Lifecycle Policy, but that's an umbrella term for Microsoft products that are on more fix-forward lifecycles and where customers need to refer to each individual policy in order to ascertain whether they're supported. For instance, [.NET Core is also Modern Lifecycle Policy](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle/search?alpha=.NET%20Core)

I'd use something more along the lines of: "With the release of PowerShell 7, PowerShell continues to be supported under the [Microsoft Modern Lifecycle Policy](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/30881/modern-lifecycle-policy) with support dates driven by the [.NET Core's support lifecycle][Long-Term]." 

Not suuuuper happy with my wording, so feel free to wordsmith, but you get the gist.

Author: Updated but won't resolve unless you think it's a good representation.

Reviewer: LGTM

In this servicing approach, customers can choose Long Term Support (LTS) releases or Current
releases. PowerShell 7.0 is an LTS release. Support ends with the support of .NET Core 3.1.

> The next LTS release follows the next .NET core LTS release. See the [PowerShell releases end of life table](#PowerShell-releases-end-of-life)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next LTS release follows the next .NET core LTS release. See the [PowerShell releases end of life table](#powerShell-releases-end-of-life)
```

for current ending support dates. LTS release updates only contain critical, compatible updates and

> fixes.

Reviewer 2: I *think* this is what you meant by compatible? I stumbled a little on it, so just clarifying. Feel free to wordsmith further

```suggestion
for current ending support dates. LTS release updates only contain critical security and servicing updates and
fixes that are designed to avoid or minimize impact to existing workloads.
```

Author: Works for me. I tried to translate the .NET terminoligy and meaning so if you think this is more accurate, definitely switching it out.

A Current release is a release that occurs between LTS releases. Current releases can contain critical fixes, innovations, and new features. A current release is supported for three months after the next Current or LTS release.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must have the latest patch update installed to qualify for support. For example, if you're
> running PowerShell 7.0 and 7.0.1 has been released, you must update to 7.0.1 to qualify for
> support.

## Lifecycle of PowerShell Core 6.x

PowerShell Core used the [Microsoft Modern Lifecycle Policy][modern]. This support lifecycle
is intended to keep customers up-to-date with the latest versions.

The version 6.x branch of PowerShell Core was updated approximately once every six months
(examples: 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, etc.). However, with the release of PowerShell 7, there won't be anymore

> releases of 6.x.

Reviewer 2: Can you clarify this around "minor version updates"? 6.0 and 7.0 were major version updates, 6.1 and 6.2 were minor version updates, and 6.2.x will continue to receive servicing updates while it's supported.

Author: Updated but won't resolve unless you think it's a good representation.

Reviewer: LGTM

have a problem that requires immediate attention, you should use the traditional, paid support
options.

## LifeCycle of PowerShell 7

> PowerShell 7 has moved from the Microsoft Modern Lifecycle Policy to being linked to [.NET Core's support lifecycle][Long-Term].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the release of PowerShell 7, support has moved from the Microsoft Modern Lifecycle Policy to follow [.NET Core's support lifecycle][Long-Term].
```

In this servicing approach, customers can choose Long Term Support (LTS) releases or Current

> releases. PowerShell 7.0 is an LTS release and support will end with support of .NET Core 3.1 and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
releases. PowerShell 7.0 is an LTS release. Support ends with the support of .NET Core 3.1.
```

> the next LTS release will follow the next .NET core LTS release. You can see the [PowerShell releases end of life table](#PowerShell-releases-end-of-life)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next LTS release follows the next .NET core LTS release. See the [PowerShell releases end of life table](#PowerShell-releases-end-of-life)
```

for current ending support dates. LTS release updates only contain critical, compatible updates and
fixes.

In between LTS releases, there will be Current releases containing critical fixes as well as
innovations and new features. However, Current releases are only supported for three months after a

> subsequent Current or LTS release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Current release is a release that occurs between LTS releases. Current releases can contain critical fixes, innovations, and new features. A current release is supported for three months after the next Current or LTS release.
```

have a problem that requires immediate attention, you should use the traditional, paid support
options.

## LifeCycle of PowerShell 7

With the release of PowerShell 7, PowerShell continues to be supported under the [Microsoft Modern Lifecycle Policy][modern],
but support dates are linked to [.NET Core's support lifecycle][Long-Term]. In this servicing
approach, customers can choose Long Term Support (LTS) releases or Current releases. PowerShell 7.0
is an LTS release. Support ends with the support of .NET Core 3.1. The next LTS release follows the
next .NET core LTS release. See the [PowerShell releases end of life table](#powershell-releases-end-of-life)
for current ending support dates. LTS release updates only contain critical security and servicing
updates and fixes that are designed to avoid or minimize impact to existing workloads.

A Current release is a release that occurs between LTS releases. Current releases can contain

> critical fixes, innovations, and new features. A current release is supported for three months after

Reviewer 3: Three or six?

Reviewer: Three. That is the .Net Core policy.

Author: This is specifically for a "Current" release. in short, LTS releases will be supported for 3 years or 12 months after a subsequesnt LTS release, whichever is longer. 

"Current" releases will be supported 3 months after a subsequent "Current" or LTS release

Reviewer 3: There is a problem. After .Net Core next servicing release we get PowerShell servicing release later 1-2 months. So we get EOL of the .Net Core release before the PowerShell Core release.

Author: The PowerShell team will still support the the versions for the documented time frames. @joeyaiello, do you have any input on this?

the next Current or LTS release.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must have the latest patch update installed to qualify for support. For example, if you're
> running PowerShell 7.0 and 7.0.1 has been released, you must update to 7.0.1 to qualify for
> support.

## Lifecycle of PowerShell Core 6.x

PowerShell Core used the [Microsoft Modern Lifecycle Policy][modern]. This support lifecycle
is intended to keep customers up-to-date with the latest versions.

The version 6.x branch of PowerShell Core was updated approximately once every six months (examples:
6.0, 6.1, 6.2, etc.). However, with the release of PowerShell 7, there won't be anymore minor

> version releases releases of 6.x. PowerShell 6.2.x will continue to receive servicing updates while

Reviewer 3: Since only 6.2 lives we could remove all about 6.0 and 6.1.

> [!NOTE]
> CIM, PowerShell Remoting, and DSC are not supported on Alpine.

## PowerShell releases end of life

> Based on [Lifecycle of PowerShell](#lifecycle-of-powershell-7), the following table lists

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Based on the [Lifecycle of PowerShell](#lifecycle-of-powershell-7), the following table lists
```

> [!NOTE]
> CIM, PowerShell Remoting, and DSC are not supported on Alpine.

## PowerShell releases end of life

Based on [Lifecycle of PowerShell](#lifecycle-of-powershell-7), the following table lists
the dates when various releases will no longer be supported.

| Version |    End-of-life     |
| :-----: | ------------------ |
|   7.0   | December 3, 2022   |
|   6.2   | September 4, 2020  |

> |   6.1   | September 28, 2019 |

Reviewer: Since these dates have passed, do we need to include them?

Also, is 6.2 supported for 1 year since it was released under the Modern Lifecycle which requires a 12-month notice window?

Reviewer 2: Yes, we should include them for historical reasons. Microsoft's overall policy website and .NET's policy page do the same. 

And no, [the terms](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/30881/modern-lifecycle-policy) read as such, and we've provided a successor with PS 7:

> 12 months' notification prior to ending support if no successor product or service is offered

| Ubuntu         |  16.10  | [July 2017](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2017-July/000223.html)                                         |
| Ubuntu         |  17.04  | [January 2018](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2018-January.txt)                                           |
| Ubuntu         |  17.10  | [July 2018](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2018-July/000232.html)                                         |
| Windows        |    7    | [January 2020](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4057281/windows-7-support-ended-on-january-14-2020)                        |
| Windows Server | 2008 R2 | [January 2020](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4456235/end-of-support-for-windows-server-2008-and-windows-server-2008-r2) |

## Notes on licensing

PowerShell Core is released under the [MIT license][]. Under this license, and without a paid
support agreement, users are limited to [community support][]. With community support, Microsoft
makes no guarantees of responsiveness or fixes.

## Windows PowerShell Compatibility

> The support lifecycle for PowerShell doesn't cover modules that ship outside of PowerShell 7. For

Reviewer 2: Just adding a little more specificity

```suggestion
The support lifecycle for PowerShell doesn't cover modules that ship outside of the PowerShell 7 release package. For
```

example, using the `ActiveDirectory` module that ships as part of Windows Server is supported under
the [Windows Support Lifecycle][]. 

PowerShell 7 improves compatibility with existing PowerShell modules written for Windows PowerShell. For more information, see the [about_Windows_Compatibility][]
article and the [module compatibility list][].

> [!NOTE]

> > The **WindowsPSModulePath** module is no longer necessary in PowerShell 7 and is not supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The [**WindowsPSModulePath**](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/WindowsPSModulePath) module is no longer necessary in PowerShell 7 and is not supported.
```

| Ubuntu         |  17.10  | [July 2018](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2018-July/000232.html)                                         |
| Windows        |    7    | [January 2020](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4057281/windows-7-support-ended-on-january-14-2020)                        |
| Windows Server | 2008 R2 | [January 2020](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4456235/end-of-support-for-windows-server-2008-and-windows-server-2008-r2) |

## Notes on licensing

PowerShell Core is released under the [MIT license][]. Under this license, and without a paid
support agreement, users are limited to [community support][]. With community support, Microsoft
makes no guarantees of responsiveness or fixes.

## Windows PowerShell Compatibility

The support lifecycle for PowerShell doesn't cover modules that ship outside of PowerShell 7. For
example, using the `ActiveDirectory` module that ships as part of Windows Server is supported under
the [Windows Support Lifecycle][]. For more information, see the [about_Windows_Compatibility][]

> article and the [module compatibility list][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [Windows Support Lifecycle][]. 

PowerShell 7 improves compatibility with existing PowerShell modules written for Windows PowerShell. For more information, see the [about_Windows_Compatibility][]
article and the [module compatibility list][].
```
